That's.
OK.
So if I'm not wrong,
last time we did not do any join.
Statements, right?
We have not started yet,
so we are a bit behind in terms of
contents.
Let's me uh.
Check that.
This is right here.
So.
OK, so let's just have a look. Bonjour.
Let's just have a look to the to the
overall. Um
Map I would say of this database.
It looks like this.
If you remember the last thing that we
did.
Last thing that we did was to import the
club data database in my database,
in my private close down database and the
diagram looks like this.
What does that mean? We have 3 tables and.
How many leaks?
We have feelings. What is good,
what is usual I would say is to check
that we have good things which is in
between facilities and members that that
it's like normal, it's central.
We have this news connection from member
to member.
What does that mean?
We have this real connection.
That's the next members, the members.
Do you remember? Do you know what it is?
Why do we have a loop on members?
There's a connection from member to
member.
What is good is with that diagram is that
you have only one Click to understand
what makes the link if you click on the
link.
You will see what connects what data in
connection with what order from the
remote table.
So here bookings we point the I think
here points to make my idea of the
members.
So that means that here we have what we
call a.
That's with key. We have a foreign key.
We have a foreign key between bookings
and members,
and here we can see that this name ID has
a special symbolic.
Representation is because this is the the
primary queue of members.
So MMI is the primary queue of members
and it is targeted by authority from
bookings.
To remember.
OK, so why do we do that? You remember?
Why do we do these primary piece for
increase and so on?
It will send data, so real use data.
To connect data, yes.
When you have to retrieve data from to
make the production to avoid repeating
the booking member names, address,
etcetera.
Every every time when we do a booking,
we just say we have a booking ID number
ID.
And then we point to this number ID
whenever we need to make a reference to
that number.
And that's the same for the facility.
I don't care of repeating all those
information because I know them already.
So instead of repeating them,
what I will do,
I will create a link between.
Bookings and facilities through the
correspondence of facility ID equal
facility ID.
The question now is what if I want to
have?
A research of a query that will aggregate
several data from different tables.
For me.
Next time the last one,
we'll bring the breakfast for everyone.
At this phone.
OK,
so what I said here is it's easy to get
all the data from one paper.
Do you remember I've seen that very
quickly at the end of the last lecture is
select.
Start from the table.
Select start from table.
We return everything which we have in the
table.
Select for instance here name and member
cost.
From facilities we will get only the name
and the number cost for this table for
each entry in this table.
So you see you select the column names
and it will return.
In the output the problem now is what if
I want to have the list of bookings plus
not the facility ID because I haven't
already on in each booking I have the
facility ID which is good but.
As a human,
I don't care about the facilitators.
If you see a list of pilots,
you will be a bit trust if I try to dump
the list of students here.
If I have only the IDs.
We have been dry because I don't know who
it was. No response to what I.
So it would be a bit difficult if we work
only with IDs.
Humans need to have the functional data,
the business data.
So that means that here we need to have
that.
Resolution of the link that we have here
in order to in order to have to take
advantage of the link that we have set up
between.
Let's let's maybe let's do a small
introduction about whispering.
Whispering it when you talk. Let's.
So that's it. Sure. You see,
you can't even even maybe listen to me
because it's too low, but that's perfect.
If you want to chat, use whispering.
Thank you guys.
OK, so you can check. OK,
I'm not sure whether you want to talk
about everything extend the database.
You will be concerned at the end because
of course the the results of your exam
will be a bit down,
maybe low because you will not have
listen, but except of the receipt,
I will not be troubled.
Just do not bother me.
By talking loud. OK,
So what I said is that if we can't,
if we can take advantage of the link that
we have set up between 2 tables,
it means that we can as well resolve data
from one primary table to another one.
One for instance is that if I want to
have the bookings.
Not only facility ID but facility name.
I will have to use an operator which is
called join.
OK so for instance here I could say in my
query editor.
If I have.
The list of Boo if I want the list of
bookings.
This is to limit the the result to 10.
OK, so.
You see it's not so usable the actually
the only functional data are here.
Which is the time,
date and time and then the duration of
the booking.
Slots is actually the number of time
slots that you are taking for one booking.
OK, so imagine that we have this.
Now I want to resolve.
The facilities using the link that we
have set up.
Between bookings and facility.
What's sorry?
What's the correspondence?
It's actually facilities ID is
corresponding corresponding to booking
facility ID. Bonjour.
That makes me having all the data
corresponding to my facility.
I'm resolving everything.
It means that here on the left side I
have the original query SELECT star from
booking.
But after the last column of booking,
I can see new columns here and are
corresponding to the facilities table.
So it's like we have merged 2 tables
merged on what's on what criteria on this
equality.
So what happens behind the scenes when we
do that?
It's taking all the data from the
bookings and every time it finds one data
in the facilities which matches this
condition.
It happens it at the end of the line for
each line.
So it's like a merge,
but it's a horizontal merge.
It's not appending,
it's just appending at the.
For each data that we have for bookings,
we are adding new columns on based on
that correspondence.
OK, mainly here it's a bit long.
We can have only maybe the the time slots.
The time, sorry, the start time.
And the name and maybe the number of
slots.
And now we know,
at least for those 10 results, we know.
What has been booked for how long and at
what date inside?
Do you understand the concept of join?
It's good that we have spread our data
over several favors because now we are
raising them.
The problem is now to retrieve the word
that I said that we wanted to use,
maybe to present within an application,
maybe to build a prediction that assets,
maybe to do visualizations, etcetera. OK,
good.
So let's go back to the theory.
Bonjour.
But.
Yes,
one point that is important to recall.
I will base my evaluation on this
exercise.
I'm I'm not sure.
I can't remember if I've introduced that
website to you. OK, I have. I did that.
Bonjour.
So you can check this and train as.
Much as possible.
Because the exam will be based on this
kind of of exercise.
OK guys.
Uh.
OK,
so if I summarize what we have done here,
it's not so interesting.
I think what could be interesting more
likely is to to the reverse.
Here we are selecting.
The bookings.
What does it do here?
It's it select all the bookings where the
facilities have a monthly maintenance
below 15.
What's the interest is maybe to have the
cheapest bookings to to record to.
To to manage, I would say here.
So maybe if I want to do a a a
profitability calculus,
maybe that could be interesting to start
with that list of bookings.
Let's see.
Now you see that here I'm using a join.
Actually join like this can be replaced
by inner join.
There are different types of join
depending on of what you want to isolate
in terms of data.
Here we are not asking ourselves,
we just say.
Inner join means that you will get all
the connected data,
but sometimes you may have some isolated
data, like data connected to anything. OK,
let me find the illustration because I
can see the.
The website I was referring to is dead,
apparently.
Well, I can't find exactly what I want,
but this one I think will do.
OK.
What we will do?
We do this, this, this, this and that.
Because the those ones are not supported
in my secret. Very simple,
as simple as that.
But let me take some examples and while
we have Venn diagrams,
maybe it will remind you of the of the
algebra lectures when you have ensembles,
etcetera. That's exactly it here.
We have A&
B which are actually two entities and the
space inside represent data.
So what we have here in the circle is
data. We have data from A, data from B.
Hence the red parts of the diagram is
actually the selected data,
the data we enrich with.
Let's take some example because A&
B is a I'll be the abstracts.
Let's take attendance and students.
It.
All grades and students,
because I know that you like grades.
You like grades a lot.
And that's why we are talking about
grades.
So we have grades and we have students
here. What are we doing?
We are taking all the grades.
And you see that there's an intersection
between grades and students.
What does that mean?
We have grades and the students connected
to the grades and then we have empty
things here,
which means that we may have some grades
not connected to anything in the students.
Is that is that possible to have grades?
No, no. In reality it's not possible.
We should have only.
Connected data.
So normally when we want to retrieve data,
there should be no A which is not
connected to B as in this diagram in
reality,
but in real life it can happen maybe
because you have denties as well.
But not deleted this grade and so that
means that here we have some grades
without any connected student can happen
maybe due to a bug or due to a a missing
step in the in the delete procedure.
OK, so do you understand?
Here we select all the grades,
all the grades connected with students
and here we may have some unconnected
students.
In that case means that we have grades
with no student attached, OK.
What is that?
If we follow the same example.
What's the use for that? For example,
there is no, as you said,
no waste connected to no student.
I agree that normally there should be in
the ideal world.
There should be no difference between
left joint and inner joint. If you miss,
you have full walking, free walking,
rational database because the goal of
rational database is greatly and if you
have deadly then means that.
You have an issue.
So in reality,
you always have to follow one table
compared to another.
Then ask yourself what's what's important
to have the grace.
All to have only the greatest that are
connected to things.
This is the first question.
You want all the data from table or all
the connected data compared to another
table.
See because this and that can be a price
and this is why the left joint ensure
that you will have all the data from.
The left join exclusive which is just
below here is all the data from A which
are not connected to B.
So here mainly this is a level query.
You want to have all the data which
should be connected but which are not
connected.
Here the inner join only the connected
data,
but be careful because if you do inner
join you will miss potentially some
unconnected data. OK,
so it depends what you want to do if you
want to have for instance all the the
counts of all the grades.
True,
it's weird to have great which are not
connected to students,
so maybe we should ask ourselves why they
are here and should we count steps.
But if they are here and you are asked to
do statistics,
then maybe you should dump your full
counts.
Of the the grades that you have.
So amazing more this one. OK hence.
It should not be different from this one,
but it could be.
You see?
So if you have a difference in counts in
terms of count between this and that,
it means that you have somewhere some
data which are not connected.
It.
Here what it does in in addition to the
original select star from A,
it does select star from A plus all the
dates are connected to A from and you see
that we have a long space here.
Actually,
it will appear as new values in our
results. We'll see.
We'll practice that very soon.
Let's keep in mind simple example,
A equal attendance, B equal students. OK,
and here what we do here.
If we go on the reverse,
so here we select all the students and
potentially the attached grades and here
we select all the students with no grades.
Which is weird as well.
Maybe it's a student who has declared
himself as a student but never came to
the new lecture,
never came to a new exam and so he has no
grades. Or maybe he was sick.
I don't know,
but this is a way to isolate those
specific data.
So your added value as an engineer.
Is not to know how to write this,
but to identify the case.
You see,
to play on I I need to have all the data
from A by default,
so it means that I will have to use a
left join.
And after that, how to write a left join,
it's a detail.
So it's the conversion between the
business input.
I want this from the business,
so I want all the students which have no
grade and you have to think.
And in your mind you should have this
diagram,
small diagram that says student with no
grade could be right join excluding OK.
So how do we write this?
Let's do an exercise.
I have um.
A script.
Let me share it with you.
OK, so the first exercise,
the first small exercise is to create a
new database.
On your system and this database has to
be called SQL join exercise.
Let's create a new database join.
Exercises.
You see that as soon as I create
something here,
I will create a new folder join exercise.
And then once you have this,
the idea is to take.
Peace.
OK.
Create new file.
That's it. OK, first load the data.
And you see that here it's said known,
so that means not connected to anything.
Not grab data join exercise.
OK.
And then if you remember that if you want
to execute as a script,
just use the third execution button.
Normally you should have two tables plus
16 rows, so that means 18 queries.
If you have a look now to the join
exercise,
you should have table A and table B.
B.
You recognize that what I want is to have
table A and table B here,
so let's just select.
Anything.
Let's rename this to dump dot SQL.
Let's create a new file.
That I could join practice.
And then I do select star from A.
It's not a, actually it's table A.
OK, this is what I have in a.
Now let's see what what happens when we
have a left join.
Table B.
On.
Yeah.
What happens here?
We are doing a join.
And to to make sure the join does not
create rows that could match several
times, we use the PK.
Usually we use the primary key in order
to set up the match condition between 2
rows, yes.
Come again, please.
Yeah.
Yes, you you could on general on NSSQL,
but here it's not possible. Yeah,
because actually there's no name for the
primary key in MySQL.
You see, it's this one is optional.
OK.
It will take by default the primary key,
but here we have no primary key,
so I feel it's a bit tricky to rely on
this on this default behavior because it
does not force you to.
To think about what should match,
but usually yes,
we we match on primary key and but it's
not mandatory, you can have more than.
One condition here can have hands.
And do your list of conditions.
So if you have a very specific join which
is not only relying on the presence of
primary keys,
but you want to filter as well some
elements,
you can have another kind of match.
OK.
Let's stay on the simple aspect for now
and let's see what happens if we do that.
If you notice here,
we have all the rules from A.
We have all the data from A.
We have some data from me.
Here at line 123 and line 67.
OK and we have some null values here.
If we think it's actually here,
we have all the data from A.
We will have some data from A that
corresponds to B and we have assigned to
an A value some values in B which are
empty and that means that we have null
here.
How to select only?
The table which are only in A.
How to select the data which are only in
A?
I mean just looking at this query.
And the result, the table.
What's the condition that I should add to
this result in order to have only the
data which are only in A?
If.
No idea.
Tell me what rules are only in a.
What are the rules which are only in A?
This one.
No, no,
because here we have some data which are
OK, it should.
Let me reformulate the question.
What are the data which are which are
only a PK value which is only a?
The least like like John and then there
will be exactly where PK is or PK is not.
If you look at the condition,
the data which are only a.
It's line 4, line 5 and line 8. Yep,
because how do we know that?
Because it has null on the B side.
So that means it's not connected to B
point and that means what?
That means that we have as well.
A very easy way to isolate them is to do
where?
Where?
V dot PK is new.
And here we have the table A data which
are only in A and not found in B.
Understood.
Good. So if you have understood,
then let's do all the rest of the joins.
Um.
So this is.
It.
Left join exclusive.
Left join is this.
OK.
And now I would like you to find to
practice inner join. It's pretty easy.
Inner join is instead of left you do
inner and right join you do right instead
of left.
So but just to have a look to the results.
It provides.
Please do me the three remaining jobs,
inner join, right join, right join.
Yes.
OK.
Yeah.
So, so again.
So it means that some of the ancestry are
not here. I would send you the link,
the redistributable,
which I'm not here anymore.
I don't know why.
Maybe you haven't installed something? No.
Yeah,
but have you uninstalled something which
is not MySQL but you have still
uninstalled something? No,
you have made no change on the on the
data, on the on your system.
So.
What's your name?
Yes.
This one.
Mhm.
All right.
OK.
Mhm.
Let's see.
OK, so.
Normally 3 queries should be very easy to
and quick to write.
So I.
Go again. This is the left join exclusive.
Have a look here. It's two comments,
some lines.
It's dash O we can have the right join.
You see,
it's a bit weird because we select from
the table,
but here what do we expect to have?
All the data from.
B. So we select table A,
but we expect to have all the values from
B. For me it's a bit counterintuitive.
This is why I'm not using the right join
so fun,
but this is in the result what we have.
So we have all the.
Data from here as expected.
Data from B,
some data connected from A connected to B.
OK,
so based on the equivalence of the PK and
some non matching data from A from B in A.
OK, so if I want to isolate only the.
Not connected data, the unconnected data.
I can do my right join exclusive.
Pay attention, it's not equal null,
it's is null, or is not null. So this is,
these are the data from B,
which are not connected to anything in A.
Now let's do the inner join.
Self join. What do you mean by self join?
Yeah.
Self join. OK, yeah, actually self join.
I think it's not something which is in
the common SQL. Well,
so it's maybe a shortcut to join on
yourself and.
Honestly, I never used it, so I can tell.
But if we go back to the previews
database,
you remember that we have something which
points to itself, which is the members,
and here it's interesting because.
Thanks to this, for instance,
if we do a join on the same table.
Like this select star from members.
Join so we can do inner join.
We expect all the data to be connected.
Maybe that could be interesting to have
as well the unconnected data.
So we take all the members list,
we keep it full and then we will try to
append the corresponding members.
On the right side, so left join.
Members.
On M dot memid equal M2 dot recommended
by because we have seen it was the the
foreign key to itself.
And here, what do we see?
We see all the information from A,
which is the member,
and some corresponding values here. OK,
these on the right side are actually the
percent that we have.
That have recommended.
The the first part of the members,
so we can say maybe.
Instead of star.
First name.
Surname.
And here we can say.
M2 dot first name M2 dot last name.
It's surname, sorry.
OK, so I've run here.
We can see the links of persons who have
been recommended by someone else.
So apparently guest has been recommended
by no one. That seems normal.
But this person has been recommended by
This.
Janice droplets,
but as well these gerald butters,
that's a bit weird to have this in that
way.
You commented by yes.
I maybe.
Sorry,
I would have expected to find only one
person here.
Maximum on this side,
but apparently we have more than one.
So what does that mean when we have
person who are not connected to anything?
They have not been recommended by anyone.
They just came to the club like this. OK,
so maybe self join was to do something
like this. I I don't know.
Maybe I should document a bit.
But you see there are plenty of
variations in SQL that we that we don't
know. It depends on the vendors,
depends on the usages as well.
So sometimes you just work with a company
and you only what the company gives you.
But normally with right, left, inner,
you should cover whatever is needed. OK,
so let's go back to the club data.
And I would like you to practice a bit to
find 2-3,
maybe maximum 5 queries that are using
joint. OK, no more point to connect data.
The.
Mhm.
Small.
So.
It.
We.
It.
Maybe it's because you have not imported
the the club data, the club data.
It's in the I provided it last time.
So in teams you should have done the SQL
file. Have a look at teams.
What?
This one you should create a new database.
How to create a new database?
It's right click on databases.
Create new database and then once you
have this you will open a new SQL scripts,
copy paste the dum dot SQL,
run the dum dot SQL.
Yes, but this is.
I will look to what is inside.
Language.
So you have nothing my recommend.
I recommend that you you name the
databases accordingly to what we what
they are doing.
So if you practice what it's not so
useful to understand what it means.
So I will create maybe.
But to clear then create new database
data.
OK.
That's it now. Let's credit the talk.
And then we copy paste like that's here.
But don't that you have just what you
have that I don't know.
Sure. Yeah.
General.
I took you.
Oh.
S.
And now you execute everything.
It's the self.
So now you should refresh this one,
wipe it.
Refresh.
What's going through them?
OK.
Uh, so this one is a new data,
the other one. So now it will be quick.
So I click on that. It's great, yeah.
Join the service.
OK. And then yes,
create a new file actually you'll have it.
So you can here join practice other joins
practices just.
Yeah, but we will reorganize later.
OK, so now you execute.
OK, this.
Yes,
it's it's it's the transit in favors of
this one. That's in the.
Refresher, you will see.
After you get into it,
if you if you can remove and drop this,
this Johnny says because you're having to.
So I really got it.
Thanks.
You have to remember that practice 31 is
actually the joint.
OK.
Yup.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, of course. Of course you can do the.
If you notice the right join is nothing
more than the left join,
but starting from B.
Do select from a left right join B.
It's the same as select B left join A.
It's exactly exactly the same.
It's a matter of the point of view.
Sometimes you're forced to query from.
OK.
Because B is not the only table you want
to join. You have,
you can join several times.
It will be the case in bookings.
If we need to have both the members and
facilities details, we need to join twice.
We need to join in facilities.
We need to join our members, OK.
Let's do 5 minute break.
And after that I show 5 queries on the
club data.
I just switched something to.
So.
It.
Thank you.
That's what I'm trying to do now.
It's like I'm.
Like this?
It's still, it's easier for me.
I use it for the.
Yeah. Oh, OK. You want to click on.
That's it. Yeah.
Oh, OK, it's I'll sign the scripts. Yeah,
we need the script. No, the script.
OK, yes, this is what we used to do today.
Yes, that's what I'm about to do.
I think it's something.
Save it according to the distructure.
Yeah, you can.
They are writing.
Yes, it's definitely.
It's in the gambling and moving.
We we said, but what's up?
And that's when you're still dependent.
That's it. That's fine.
But.
OK, good. Yeah, the one itself.
That's fine. It's not for you to have it,
but basically it's the right. Yeah,
when you click the inside,
when you click the next.
The first thing you need to always... Yes,
we can make the scripts and everything to
the script you need to direct it to...
No, no beta exist, but suggested. Yeah,
so you do it. You see here,
you just look for this, right?
You click on it and you select your.
And it flips a little bit.
So you select right later. That's all.
So now every part you run are drawn.
Yes, it doesn't matter.
You can even do baby.
Which?
I'm just saying I want to drop the whole
point is you need to connect it to this
group.
Yeah.
You have the the.
But sometimes you don't.
OK.
Yeah.
Thank you very much and I do for you
tonight.
Yes. No, we have. We have. We have. Yeah.
So we think we look at the difference.
It's OK. I want you,
if you from here to recruit to me,
what I would advise is every time you
have a script that is to create the good
that means right.
Right? So then, actually,
don't think of this.
Yes, so none connected to the .
See.
Yep, and the next one you have to connect.
OK.
Thank you.
OK,
so do you have any question regarding the
join? Do you see the the concept?
I think if you have understood why we do
links,
it's pretty easy to understand why now
it's a matter of practice.
As usual,
you will not learn it without practice.
So have you found 5 queries regarding the
collab data database?
That could be interesting.
So for instance,
could be all the bookings with the
corresponding facility names.
This is what we have here.
If we remove this,
of course we need to limit.
To a certain number.
Because otherwise what happens if we do a
select star with no limits?
You will have.
The world data.
The whole table data that will be dumped.
OK, so that's why it's important.
So here it's a left it's an inner join.
OK, what if I want to have as well?
Not everything, but maybe the.
Facility name.
Facility name,
then the maybe the booking time.
The facility name, the number of slots.
And maybe we what could be interesting is
to have the members.
How do I do to get the members?
What should I add here in order to get
the members as well?
Hello. Someone is talking to you.
Here we have.
This.
We should have a inner join and next
another join.
Actually can be inner join as well inner
join.
Members.
On.
And you see,
if you are patient for at least 200
milliseconds,
it will check if there's a primary key
that exists and the primary key and
foreign key that exists.
It will propose this by default.
OK,
so you don't even have to write if your
database constraints are correctly set up.
OK and what should it do here?
Would it change the query if I do this?
Would it change the result timing?
It will not change the result. Why?
Because I did not select anything else.
So here I need to select first name.
And last name.
OK, so here we know.
We know exactly.
Who has booked what at what time?
Give me another idea.
OK.
Wait, you have a question?
No, exactly.
So you see here the question is.
Do we have to always rename the table
name here to put an alias on it and then
to use this alias as prefix? No,
it's not always necessary,
but this is only because we have in the
select at list.
No ambiguity.
Here you see it's mandatory because we
need to to precise what column are we
talking about.
Here this column is not the same as this
one, even if the name is the same.
So in that case you would be.
Forced to prefix at least by the table
name if you have no alias because the the
engine will say I don't know of what
column you are thinking about.
It's ambiguous.
What about when like when you are
displaying it?
Yeah, I you can as well.
So without doing as that's what you did
as refill first name and you just like
this everything to use the table name
automatically as a prefix when displaying
it, when it displays it.
So instead of start time new first name,
I'm sorry let's call.
Bookings dot start time.
You mean here you would like to have the
the prefix of the table? Yeah, no,
it's not possible to have it because here
it's something that does not exist.
It's only for for you to help. OK,
if you really want to have B dot
something.
You have to have an eyes or simply like
this.
OK.
The as is implicit here. Yeah,
but usually this is not what we want.
Now you have two two cases,
but actually it's a kind of the same case.
It's normally you are doing a query.
To feed some a part of the software.
It can be a back end aspect,
so in that case what you need is
something which is unique and not so
presentable.
You don't care about the presentation.
What comes here as long as it is unique.
And you can map it easily from your
software. You don't care.
Sometimes you are doing a select query to
be directly presented in the user
interface by using for instance a
dashboard system or like I don't know if
you know.
Power BI or tools like this that do
dashboard from data.
It's exactly the case here.
If you want to have something which
presents well from the beginning,
you will rename your columns directly at
the SQL level.
But usually it's not the case because you
will have to aggregate with other data
and you will finally rename your view so
that it it is well looking for the user
so.
Usually you what you want really is
something which is unique here.
OK, so we have this,
but we are a bit limited here.
For instance,
if we want to have the user who is the
most active,
the the member who is the most active in
this database.
How can I do?
What? What data should I have?
Yes, we need an aggregation. We need to.
Sorry,
you see I'm getting old and a bit diff
maybe. So the question was.
If I want to identify who are the most
active members in this database,
how do I do? What should I do?
What are the data I should have?
The counts of bookings per member and
then if I have this I will be able to
identify who has booked the most in among
the members. Do you see the the approach?
The problem is that here we we have a
count function. I did not introduce it,
but we have.
The count function,
but we'd like to have a count function
per member, per booking,
per members booking actually. OK,
so we need to have the bookings for one
member and then to count specifically
those bookings.
This is where we are missing some some
tools here.
Sure.
And this is if you want to.
This if you want to do the few previous
slides,
if it's if you want to connect to some
programming languages before we go for
the for the aggregate functions etc.
Just a small introduction to the other
SQL functions.
So we have concat.
If you want to concatenate strings,
for instance in the to calculate the the
display name of a member,
you could concatenate first name plus
surname within the same column.
So it will look like this.
Just to let you know.
It.
Maybe just with her.
Separate all space in between.
Here we can have as display name. OK,
so it merges joins, strings.
Concat could be called joins as well,
but join string.
Upper lower case to transform the the the
results,
the values to their corresponding upper
lower case.
A substring to extract a string from a
bigger string,
the length which is the size of of the
text.
Then date and date functions we have.
Now we have code dates,
we have current date is the current date
without time.
Date add is when you want to add some
interval to have for instance the.
Bookings within the two last weeks you
could have date adds -14 and between now
and this stage the date diff to compute
the difference in term in terms of of
dates.
Principally to see if a date is before
and after and here we have the the
components,
the date components extraction year,
month and day. OK, so here year,
month and day it's to have only the date
parts.
For instance,
it can be interesting to see.
Here you see that we have some dates here
you can have.
yeah only the year of the daytime,
then only the month.
Of course it has no meaning, but
It could be interesting to extract the
month to see if there's a seasonality in
our bookings for a specific facility.
For instance,
the tennis court may be booked a lot
during summer,
but not a lot during winter,
so that could be interesting to observe.
OK, so these are the date components,
but now let's try to go back to our.
Aggregate functions.
If we want to have bigger statistics,
I mean volume statistics on the on the
data set,
we need to have what we call aggregate
functions. Count is the first of them,
so we can have the idea.
Usually when it's when you import things,
you do a count to make sure that you have
the correct number of rules.
So here we can do select counts.
From members.
OK.
You see that we can count one or count
star as well. What's the difference?
What? What means this one?
What if I do 3 here changes? Nothing.
It's actually not the increments.
It's actually the column number.
So here you are counting the third column
from members here the entries in this
column.
So the count applies on one column if you
do start.
It expands the whole list of columns that
you have for one row.
Which is not good because actually you
need only one column to to make your
counts. OK,
what is interesting for you is the number
of rows.
So normally if you have a rectangular
table, which is our case here.
If you count column one, column two,
column three or all the columns,
it will still be a row. So it's one row,
whatever is the number of columns you
have expanded.
Why am I forcing one here to make sure we
are not expanding the whole columns data?
To only do the counts of the room. OK,
you can only go first. Yep, exactly. Yeah.
OK, so here's the counts.
So you see how to apply this.
It's a bit weird because.
Beforehand we had a result which look
like this, so it's a table.
So it's a table.
Here the result is a very specific table.
It's a table with one column and one row
on. This is why it's called an aggregate,
because we are aggregating a list of data
to one single value.
Value.
OK,
so when you see that it's always it can
sometimes be called aggregation and
sometimes it can be called as well a
reduction.
Maybe you have seen in the literature map
reduce operation.
Here we are doing a reduction.
We are reducing the data set to a single
value. OK.
It.
So we have other functions like AVG.
For instance,
if we want to see the average number of
slots which which is booked,
median percentiles,
actually all the statistics,
statistical data we have as well.
We can determine partitions.
Based on some criteria and that will
allow us to do some counts or some
aggregates per partition of the data.
For instance,
if you remember I said I would like to
counts per member per different member.
We can do a partition over the member ID,
so we have a subset of the data.
Data only for that member and then we can
do a specific count only for that guy.
So let's have a look here to the Select
Counts aspect.
You can also apply where clauses,
so it's like a usual query.
So if you want to filter you will have a
another result. OK,
you see that it works as well.
In order to to have stable result we need
to have order by.
And run cover we'll see in the next in
the next session.
The order by here allows you to fix an
order for your results.
Have a look here we have this.
Let's maybe do this.
If you do that for the exam.
You are doomed.
Because you have no order and even in
real life, I mean if you do that,
you are not good because if you have here
a limit of 10,
you are taking randomly 10 entries from
the table.
Which is not good if you want to do
search, if you want to do pagination,
if you want to do filtering, etcetera,
you you it's not stable.
How to make it stable?
You are forced to add an order by close,
order by and then.
Usually we use functional data,
so here apparently we are counting.
We are not counting,
but we can display what can be interested
is the list of facilities.
Maybe it could be by dates.
It's not date, it's start time,
start time desk.
So here I will have the most recent
bookings first and then I can also change
with the facility name.
So if we have something which is booked
exactly at the same time.
We can do then an order within that
subgroup.
Look at the results here, it will change.
For sure,
because now we are booking by this.
Let's just remove this because it's a bit
troubling.
Right.
OK.
So here we have the latest bookings and
then if we have something which is at the
same date and time,
you see it's the case here. What do we do?
We organize,
we order by the facility name.
And we see that here we have an equality
as well.
So in order to make it 100% stable,
we can order by.
And so we are sure that what we see here
is always in the same order.
It's super important because all the
pagination you would like to implement,
all the filtering you'd like to implement.
If you don't have an order at the
beginning, it will not work as properly.
And here I'm talking about the
application from the application point of
view.
OK.
Um, OK.
What is the difference between order by?
Oops.
And rank over.
Just classified which, which, yeah.
Usually the common problem that you will
have with business analysts and business
representatives,
user representatives is that they will
come to you with a question like I would
like to to see the top three countries.
For that count or for that statistic,
and actually the top three is very
difficult to achieve because if you have
inequality.
It's a mess. For instance,
if you have 10 countries which have
exactly the same stats,
how do you make the the choice?
So the question which is behind is maybe
not the top three.
But the countries at rank three,
up to rank three, you see the point?
It's like in the competition.
Imagine that you have a car competition
and 10 cars arrives.
In the first three places,
how do you determine who will step up on
the podium?
You see,
it's not fair if you give by name,
if you give off,
if you take randomly for the 3rd place,
all the remaining piece per person,
it's not fair.
So what is done in competition usually is
that we have an equality.
Between all the three, the step,
the wrong three.
Let's me give an example here.
Um.
Let's try to organize by join date.
Select star. Let's take from facilities.
Auto byte.
Member cost listen.
It's typical here.
Here I would like you to give me the top
three facilities regarding the member
cost.
What does that mean?
Okay, the the top, the cheapest,
the three cheapest uh facilities.
Regarding the member cost.
Oh.
There are four because member cost here
we see that we have 4% for facilities
which are which are having member cost 0.
How do you give the top three then?
I can tell you the first reflex of a
software engineer is to say OK.
I will do ask and as what is asked is to
do to have the top three,
we limit three and boom,
we have the top three.
No, have a look.
I've just organized by name now and it's
not the same result as before O my top
three has moved.
It's not good.
Not good at all.
What means that I need to have another
way to sort and to organize my top three?
Maybe I should tell the business analysts.
Yes, but top three is not good.
What you want is not top three, it's.
The cost at rank 3 maybe.
So how do you compute the rank?
This will form rank one.
1.
And then you have two or three other ways
to calculate the rank.
You have the dense rank and you have the
sparse rank.
If you use the sparse rank here,
you will move directly from rank one to
rank 4.
And then five and then six, et cetera.
You see,
we'll see that a bit later in detail,
I mean for the rank,
but it's only to explain that usually the
top three something is very difficult to
compute and this is why we need to have a
rank.
Good. So let's talk about the rank later.
The other buy is like this.
You have seen it in action.
Now let's try to have if you remember the
aggregate function that we are were
talking about.
Now we can have this aggregate function
applied pair group. How do we group?
We have to have common things.
Here I can tell you it tries to count the
booking per member.
How do you do that if you have no
database?
I give you an Excel with all the bookings.
And you don't know the crosstab.
You don't know the crosstab that allows
you to group by counts, etc.
How do you do to to first find the groups
pair member IDs?
I give you a rule list of bookings.
Inside there's the start time,
there's the member ID, the facility ID.
How do you find manually?
I mean the groups.
Of members.
All the by, yeah,
let's do a select star from bookings.
Looks like this.
You see we have member IDs with a lot of
different values. Now if I do order by.
Member ID descending.
What do I see here? Groups.
The seven first rows are for the member
ID 36.
The following rows are for member ID 35,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
You see the point.
So here we see the groups.
The only thing is that we don't want to
do the groups ourselves.
We want to the engine to find the group.
So how do we do?
If we want to to achieve that,
we will do a group by.
And it deends what you want to alley then
on this.
What do you want to know for that member?
Usually what we want at first is the
counts.
OK, you see here that we are,
we are having the count of the bookings
pair member.
It's only that here it's not a usual
source.
It's not a unexpected source that we have,
because usually when we count things,
it's to organize by counts and not pair
ID.
So what we do here is more likely to have.
The top booking members.
The here what we see here is the count of
bookings per member.
It's here select the member ID.
For each member ID you count the number
of rows associated to this member ID.
How do we,
how is it possible to have at the same
time an aggregate and a column?
It's because we have made a group and you
see here what is here.
I call it the group, the.
Group title. This is the group title.
We have set this to be the group title.
If I want, I can give another title.
I can group by name, by surname,
by surname, plus last, plus first name,
for instance, yeah.
Do you see the the approach?
Do you see how we have?
We have used a group by here to determine
partitions,
groups of data within the main table.
So we have extracted groups and for each
group we apply an aggregate.
It can be as well, not the content.
It can be for instance.
Usually when a member books something,
what's the average duration it is taking?
So here we see that.
0 means guest and usually those persons
guest are looking for three slots,
almost three slots.
In average.
Of course,
that could be interesting to group by
member and then group by facility ID to
see per member and per facility.
What's the average of looking?
See.
So we'll go again on that point next time
and of course we'll do the we'll do the
data comp.
So next time we'll do the data comp as
well.
Once the data comp is I provide you with
an unknown database.
And we do like in the exam I ask you
functional questions.
You have to extract data and that will be
the occasion to practice again to group
by and the rank over as well.
Let me share with you.
Data extraction.
OK, guys.
So for next time, if I were you,
what would I do?
I would redo with you the the lectures.
OK,
maybe I did not share with you lecture 4.
OK, so the lecture three and four,
the joints.
The review the what we have in the data
extraction dot SQL and do your
pgexercises.com.
Normally you have almost all of the
theoretical material which is necessary
to practice it.
So if you really if you do pgexercises.
com.
Between now and next time you will be
like super sharp for the data pump,
so I I strongly encourage you to do that.
Because if you think you master the data
count,
then it's very profitable for you and the
exam.
Thank you, guys. Oh, yes, the attendance.
Sorry, need to do attendance, attendance.
G1.
Uh, yes, important notice.
I can see that there are still,
but it's not for you.
It's for the next groups,
so I will not be here on December 9th.
That's what.
Uh, Group one. Group one. Where are you?
Group one?
Borgav.
I haven't.
Alliance.
Yirish.
Arun Kumar.
Jordi.
Janice. Yeah, Isabel.
Joshua Khalid.
Mahfouzur.
Mussen.
Mohammed Najumuddin.
Huh.
In the chat.
Navin Venkat.
Achin.
Obate.
Ocean.
Send me.
Squids up.
Pretty Kraj.
Are you do what to me?
And Vaishnavi.
Thank you guys. Take care.
See you next week.
So let's see if you have a.
And you let's say join and because you
not join and you want to that's the first
thing you want to use that the another
query you have to write it on because I'm
not to do something like you can see 80
or something.
I don't know if you do that you can do
two things either you will name it within
the parallel.
Something and then you can do whatever
you want as a table or in some some
database engines you can create virtual
tables. Well OK,
that's what it's using views, views, yeah,
but it's only for query.
Not only not for for instance, yeah,
just for a query like I'm optimizing so I
don't have to if you are doing always the
same thing like if you want the students
and the attendants you are doing this
always you can create a view.
Can you can you try an example maybe?
Yeah, sure. Thank you.
OK.
How we do it? Yeah, yeah,
you finish your last class.
Don't get a set up. Uh,
it's just on this one. Uh, yes,
it was allowed to be paid 0.